They missed her a lot when she left. We all did. Her contract was up after four years, and she chose not to renew it, and went back home. Well, Wael didn’t miss her. He hated having a stranger living in the house with us, still does. He always made her feel it too. When he wasn’t around, she would sit down and eat with us at the same table, me and the kids, but when he came home, she was nowhere to be seen—always hidden away in her room. I suppose I’m lucky; some women have to worry about their husbands cheating with the maid or even just lusting after her, fantasizing about her. With Wael, this was never an issue. If anything, I had to remind him to be a little gentler. He’s a bit rough, he likes to yell, and if he’s extra dramatic, he’ll break things sometimes. It’s mostly just posturing; he likes to act the big man. Deep down, he’s a big softie. You have to know his style, how to handle him, but I think the maids were always afraid of him. At the same time, I think the way he is also helped me a lot because he placed these limits on how close the maids could come to our family. He made it very clear to them: this is the family circle, and you will always be outside it. So I never had to be the bad guy in that way. Because you know, it’s such a difficult position to be in, and it’s really anxiety-inducing to understand how to navigate. On the one hand, here’s this woman living in your house, being given jurisdiction over what’s supposed to be your kingdom. She is, for all practical purposes, the woman of the house.
