The end of the Lebanese civil war was announced in 1990. The presence of domestic workers in the homes of many different classes of urban-dwelling Lebanese had become ubiquitous by then. Under the worldwide sweep of globalization and an open market, the Lebanese, too, were looking to maximize profit and for cheap labor. The Kafala system allowed them to do precisely that.

<br>

The maid’s room became a relatively fixed presence in most of Lebanon’s real estate projects. It was always designed to be tucked away in an isolated part of the house, narrow, close to the kitchen, and sometimes without a window. It always had a tiny bathroom attached so that the domestic worker wouldn’t have to share the family’s bathroom, so that the family’s space could remain, in theory, separate from the domestic worker’s space.

<br>

Since the end of the war, the country has been dominated by reconstruction policies that have raised the price of land and apartments, particularly in Beirut. A large-scale neoliberal practice became the norm, with massive investments intended to re-establish Beirut as the regional center for services. Successive governments have all worked on easing restrictions for local and foreign real estate investors, and have also increased the allowable buildable plot size (decree 2791/1992).

<br>

Mohammad Fawaz, engineer and former head of the Directorate General of Urban Planning, explains:

<p class="flex mt-5 mr-5 sm:mr-20">
In 1971, a new building law was issued that increased investment by allowing for more floors and gave priority to advantage the owner of the building, prioritizing his desires and his increase of wealth. In the 1980s, I was the head of urban planning, and we presented a draft decree to replace the ’71 law, but there was heavy opposition to it. After over eight years of debate, the 1992 decree was issued, greatly watered down from its original version, as we’d only managed to squeeze through very few of the proposals we’d put forth in order to preserve the proper shape of the city and to give priority to the benefit of its inhabitants in general. This decree was met with fierce opposition from real estate developers as soon as it was issued. The cabinet appointed a committee of ten people, headed by the Minister of Public Works and Transport and which also included the head of Beirut’s Order of Engineers and Architects, and the director-general of the Technical Affairs Branch in the Presidency of the Republic and the Council of Ministers, and the head of the Engineering Department in Beirut Municipality. After heated discussions, the committee voted in a majority of nine-to-one for the Higher Council’s proposal. I was the only dissenting voice against this decision.
</p>

<br>

During this same time period, an institutional framework for real-estate investment was established in Lebanon in order to provide incentives for investors and to reduce taxes on investments under the guise of the Investment Development Authority of Lebanon, or IDAL. Founded in 1994, its main purpose was to promote investment.

<br>

In light of these measures and incentives all geared toward encouraging a commercial approach to real estate development, prices rose, and the construction magnates took control of the construction of buildings in Beirut. In the logic of investment, it was “unacceptable” to try and secure enough space for the “maid’s room” to respect the criteria dictated by the law.

<br>

Researching the construction permits granted by Beirut Municipality during this time period affirms the widespread practice of presenting floor plans that labeled the intended bedrooms of domestic workers as pantry or laundry rooms. Both of these are classified as service rooms that are not required to have a window that would allow light and air to circulate.

<br>

An examination of the permits granted to the Saifi residential project in downtown Beirut, or the residential building project of the architect George Rayess, or any of the other permit plans issued then, will reveal the words “laundry room” in the space clearly meant to be a domestic worker’s room. The head of the Engineering Department of Beirut Municipality, which approves the construction permits, confirms this. In an interview conducted with him, he says:

<br>

What, is she going to start a family of her own in that room? Yes, of course,, we knew that it was smaller than the law dictated. Using the designation of ‘laundry room’ was a convenient loophole.
