The distributions of space shifted in these apartments as kitchens grew bigger and the worker’s room smaller. In luxury buildings, there was even a separate service entrance for the worker to use, which made it possible for her to leave and enter the apartment, shrouded from the view of the rest of the living space. She accesses her room via the kitchen or the kitchen balcony. In short, the domestic worker’s room was the weakest link in an economic chain whose goal was focused on promoting investment in the residential production mechanism in Lebanon.

<br>

The government took its cues from the practices of real estate developers in the 1990s, lessons that it then enshrined into the 2004 revision of the building law. In the new version of the law, the regulatory framework for construction in Lebanon shifted drastically toward encouraging more intensive circulation of capital in the real estate sector. An association founded by construction developers in fact intervened in the drafting of the law, amending its text to meet their own immediate needs to produce and invest in more and ever higher buildings. They increased the allowable building percentages and excluded many building zones from the calculation of said allowable percentage.

<br>

In an interview, a member of the Real Estate Traders’ Union said:

<p class="flex mt-5 mr-5 sm:mr-20">
The 2004 law was drafted here in our offices. We are in constant communication with government ministers and deputies. We wrote the draft of the law and presented it to the Higher Council and the Council of Ministers and they agreed to it without any amendments. The law facilitates our work, and most importantly, it allows us to exclude certain zones from the allowable building percentage, such as stairwells, walls, and passages leading to the service rooms, which means we can maximize the space we’re allowed to build on. In our proposal, we decreed that the maid’s room doesn't have to look out on anything, which is to the advantage of the homeowners. It’s not like the maid is going to build a family of her own in there.
</p>
