Thanks to the efforts of the real estate developers, the construction law stipulated that those spaces not designated as rooms and therefore not required to have the circulation of air and light, include: “stairwells, bathrooms, outhouses, lobbies, ironing rooms, pantry rooms, laundry rooms and kitchens, maid’s rooms.” The law article also stipulates that “the area of the kitchen or laundry room or ironing room or pantry room or maid’s room cannot exceed eight sqm” to be entitled to this exemption.

<br>

Thus, through the power of this law, the production of the “maid’s room” in all the buildings constructed after 2004 became regulated. It was a law that served to enshrine and fix the previous anomalies. The room intended for the domestic worker became a mere “service” space as if it were never intended for a living person: tiny and windowless. It also normalized the worker accessing her space through the kitchen balcony in order not to interfere into the life of the kitchen that exists independently of her. As such, she becomes more and more invisible.

<br>

Imad, who lives in the UESCO neighborhood, says:

<p class="flex mt-5 mr-5 sm:mr-20">
The kitchen is an essential part of our daily lives. But when she wants to cook or do the dishes, it’s more comfortable for her and for us not to be in one another’s faces. So we enclosed the balcony with glass and made a second, smaller kitchen in there for her that she uses for dishwashing and laundry. That way, my wife can work comfortably in the kitchen without the two of them having to stand at the same sink.
</p>
