I took my gnawing question to the Engineering Department of Beirut Municipality, looking for an answer in the archives of the building permits granted by the municipality in the 1970s and 80s.

<br>

There, among dozens and dozens of permits preserved in folders piled atop dusty shelves and organized by year, I discovered that the domestic worker’s room wasn’t even mentioned as a “maid’s room” in any of the permits issued during the 1970s and ‘80s; otherwise, the law wouldn’t have allowed the permit to be granted. Instead, the room appears under the guise of “bathroom,” “laundry room,” or “pantry” in order to justify and excuse its small size. Such was also the case with my parent’s apartment in the Ramlet el Bayda neighborhood.

<br>

The buildings of the 1970s were an “expression” of years of prioritizing the maximization of profit above all else. The years leading up to that time period witnessed the ascendancy of “oligarchic” practices over trade and economy, which overlapped with the country’s ruling political class. Through some simple numerical tampering, the size of the “maid’s room” decreased to the minimum possible size in order to allow more space for the homeowners.

<br>

An architect explains:

<p class="flex mt-5 mr-5 sm:mr-20">
The building law written in 1954 says that the maid’s room, like all the other rooms, should have a window big enough to allow in both light and air. If I’m going to follow the dictates of the law, then I’d have to place the maid’s room so that it looks out over one of the building’s façades. And this is unacceptable for the investor. So then they replace me with another architect! The priority for the façade is for the homeowners’ spaces. So I design the room to overlook the ventilation shaft or out onto the balcony with either a small window or no window at all. But in order to be granted a construction permit, I label it on the floor plan as a laundry room or pantry room.

</p>

<br>

In the 1980s, there was an increase in construction as well as neoliberal economic policies aimed at encouraging investment by granting huge, long-term loans. Also, in the 1980s, there was an increase in the number of Sri Lankan women employed in domestic work in Lebanon, with their recruitment having begun in 1978. It is important to note that there were recruitment campaigns targeting women from Vietnam and Thailand as well, but the authorities of the two countries banned the women from traveling to work abroad in Lebanon for reasons that had to do with the working conditions. Throughout this time, as new recruitment agencies were popping up everywhere, more and more luxury apartments were being built, apartments that had “maid’s rooms” that didn’t meet the minimum standards required by law, and more often than not, the rooms had no windows.
