After Wael and I married, we moved to the Gulf for his work. We had a cozy little apartment and I loved taking care of it—I loved taking care of him! Those first months of marriage were just pure magic; we were passionately in love. I’d spend all day cooking a meal, or scrubbing the bathroom, or ironing his shirts. It was almost like playing “house,” it didn’t really feel like work. But eventually, I found a job there as well, and then I got pregnant, and we had Saleem. There was no one to help me with the baby like we would have had back home. The only solutions would have been to fly either his mother or my mother to come live with us to help out, which was out of the question because imagine what that would have done to our marriage, or to hire a nanny for Saleem. She was a Sri Lankan woman, no, sorry, Indian? I forget her name. Chandra? No, Chandra came later. Anyway, she only came during the day and left after we’d finished eating dinner. It was nerve-wracking leaving Saleem with her all day. She barely spoke any language, so I couldn’t call and ask: did the baby eat properly? Did he nap? Did you wash your hands before picking him up? It made me sick with anxiety; I started to get these rashes everywhere. She also had this thing where she would never just let Saleem cry. She had children back home, and she thought that if Saleem cried, it meant her own children were crying and no one was comforting them. And so as soon as Saleem so much as made a peep, she would pick him up and rock him and sing to him. At some point, Saleem couldn’t be comforted by anyone else; at night, he would just cry and cry, and there was nothing I could do to soothe him. I went into a deep depression, and the rashes got worse. I started losing my hair from stress and lack of sleep. I was a mess. Eventually, the only thing to do was quit my job so I could take care of my son and myself, and that’s what I did.
