This is the story of the “maid’s room.” It is a story that doesn’t begin in the houses whose hidden spaces I explored, nor does it end with this dangerous current reality that requires serious intervention.

<br>

Aiecha didn’t die because of the cold or the “coal stove” or the narrowness of her room or the circumstances of that house. She didn’t die for the direct causes stated on her death certificate. Death came to her through the policies we have adopted here, ones based on devaluing human life in exchange for maximizing profit, especially when the human life in question is considered other or more vulnerable on several levels, including financial ability/purchasing power, race, and gender.

<br>

And she, the foreign domestic worker, is the most vulnerable among us. The authorities, both official and otherwise, who have produced the space in which she lives, fixing it more firmly on a daily basis both through law and practice, have made her life expendable in the face of higher profit margins.

<br>

To control this room is to control the life of the woman who dwells within it. The state of the room is reflected in the state of her own life and circumstances. If death is the worst end to befall her, the crimes committed against her do not begin there. Isolation, lack of privacy, turning all her time into work hours, turning her into a tool, a machine to be ordered around, not allowed to answer except with a consenting nod, the control exerted over her time and place, her papers and documents, her comings and goings, her physical and psychological health and security, her food and drink, her personal life past and present…. All of this, and all the other ways in which she is oppressed, not considered a conscious human being who owns her own life, confirms that the Lebanese authorities have prioritized and elevated everything to do with investment in parallel with the reduction of the importance of the domestic worker’s life.

<br>

Her employer “owns” her entire life as part of the services that supply his household. The policies that govern her life here in Lebanon make this fact plain. And these same policies regulate our lives as well.

<br>

In the end, a law drafted by the wealthy and powerful provides no justice to anyone but them.
