From the time of the formation of the Lebanese state in 1943 and up until the beginning of the 1950s, radical changes were taking place in terms of housing and society, which led to changes in the spaces and status of domestic workers as well.

<br>

During this period, Beirut witnessed tremendous growth, exceeding all expectations in terms of pace and expansion. This growth came about as a natural result of a series of economic, social, and political developments that swept the region at the end of the 1940s and the beginning of the 1950s, such as the rapid accumulation of capital during the second world war, the rupture of the customs union between Lebanon and Syria in 1950, and the influx of capital from Palestine, Egypt, Syria and the Arab Gulf countries due to occupation, nationalization, and the rapidly rising rate of investment in Arab oil fields (ref: Jad Tabet).

<br>

It was a period that saw immense expansion and construction, whereby urbanization was conceived, and the city imagined as a part of the experience of modernity. Modern landmarks were created, such as the Ottoman Burj Square, in order to encourage a new concept of society as an entity that evolves, develops, and becomes modernized.

<br>

Lebanon’s commitment to liberal policies in 1943 directly contradicted the policies of the post-colonial states in the region, which established public institutions for construction and promised to produce modern policies to support them. In Lebanon, the dream of urbanization was not dependent on state sponsorship. The promise was that we would become the country specialized in services within a larger political framework based on relaxation and complacency in the name of encouraging a free economy (ref: Ziad Abu Rish).
