In this context, the first iteration of the Lebanese Building Law was enacted in 1940. It was a modernized and revised version of the French Building Law that was in use at the time. The task of drafting the law was carried out by a committee made up of architects who had been educated in Europe at a time when modernist construction was all the rage there, so the law also reflected their vision of the urban and architectural scope (ref: Marwan Ghandour).

<br>

This situates the Lebanese law within a modern colonial context rather than the result of local experience and concepts (ref: Marwan Ghandour). A small number of architects and engineers—who had family connections to influential people in the government—managed to control the production of construction and architecture despite the presence of a union of engineers and architects and a general directorate of urban planning since the beginning of the twentieth century.

<br>

In their view, they were seeking to introduce modernity and its ways of life into the country’s homes and streets. Their local discourse took place within the framework of a wider discourse about European modernity (ref: Marwan Ghandour), which became embodied in the buildings they designed. And in their designs, the small houses surrounded by gardens were gradually replaced by a new architectural style chiefly predicated on multi-story residential buildings. The dwelling became a functional unit, its rooms exemplifying a new concept of space, whereby day-areas and night-areas were made separate in the European style. These houses then divided sleeping spaces from living spaces, and then both of these from the service area.
