As with the Kettaneh family, the 1950s witnessed a demand from many people for domestic servants from Syria. In the beginning, most of these women were Alawite Syrians. Then later, there were girls from the Akkar, Jabal Mohsen, and Wadi Khaled regions in Lebanon (ref: an interview with an employment agency owner during that period). The vast majority of these servants were young girls because that’s what people were overwhelmingly demanding.

<br>

This newly emerging bourgeois class was locally incentivized to buy modern apartments. Apartments were outfitted with chauffage (central heating), parking lots, sliding aluminum windows, and a “maid’s room.” The new version of the building law in 1954 (inspired by the older one) was designed to increase the rate of construction through a process of calculating the factors affecting real estate investment, and this process was then applied in the same way across all of Lebanon, in total disregard of many regional specificities—topographical, geographical, and social.

<br>

The 1954 version of the building law likewise differentiates between “livable rooms” and “servants’ rooms,” confirming the fact that domestic workers are considered as part of the household’s services rather than human inhabitants of the place. And yet despite that, the law stipulates the importance of natural lighting and the presence of windows and applies the same requirements at the same standards to all these spaces as a condition to receive design and building permits.

<br>

As “maids” entered the previously built houses of the city, certain rooms were replaced with other rooms and certain roles with other roles. The Duraffourd building in Ain el Mreisseh gave up the attic space/pantry and replaced it with servants’ rooms located near or above the kitchen. The residence closed in on itself and created a systematic separation between different duties, a model that extended to the entire city, reflecting the aspirations of the expanding middle class. The establishment of a space designated as the “maid’s room” was one of the “gifts” of increased modernity, evolution, and sophistication in living standards. And these “gifts” were made available to the middle class through loans and a booming real estate market in the suburbs—as was publicized in numbers of advertisements and in the promotional material produced by the different real estate projects underway at the time, particularly those of Galina Duraffourd.
