The large family earned their income from simple agriculture, planting onions, garlic, and wheat. When its season came, the children and their mother would harvest the wheat, using it to make flour for bread and bulgur for cooking. They picked pomegranates and green almonds to sell and also sold the juice they made from the pomegranates. There were so many children to feed. Their mother would have to make 13 or 14 helpings of markouk bread every morning, cooking the huge loaves atop the wood fire; the same fire above which the mother boiled the family’s dirty laundry in an enormous tin pot to remove the worst stains before scrubbing the garments by hand. And if any of her children should ever somehow get their hands on five piasters in the course of their day’s work, she’d be flooded with great joy. But it never lasted: her happiness was always as fleeting as the children’s joy in a Pepsi or RC cola bottle, whose metal tops they punctured with a nail, creating a tiny hole out of which they could suck the sweet liquid out as slowly as possible.

<br>

At the end of the 1960s, Zain’s father had joined the ranks of the Fedayeen, the armed faction of the Palestinian Fateh organization that had bases in the villages of South Lebanon. He was like so many of those around him, who found themselves caught up in a wave of fervor for Palestinian “Fedayee work,” embracing and aiding the cause in the villages of South Lebanon after the resounding defeat of the Arab armies in the June 1967 war. His father’s zeal led to Zain’s ancient and modest family home becoming a quasi-permanent headquarters for the Fedayeen, as well as their followers, supporters, and fighters in the village. When some of the family’s boys, including Zain, came of age during the first half of the 1970s, their father loaded them into his Range Rover and took them to the nearby camps of the Fedayeen for military training before sending them to Syria for more specialized military training courses.

<br>

Zain’s father also used to take seasonal road-trips, filling his jeep with a cargo of bulgur, sumac, zaatar, and other such locally-produced goods, and driving from Shaqra all the way to Kuwait, where one of his elder sons had migrated for work, following in the footsteps of his uncle.
