---
title: Migrations
---

The young storyteller spent his boyhood days in his village in the 1960s and early 1970s following the simple routines of the harvest. But then, all at once, everything changed. The family’s entire way of life was abruptly upended in 1978, when the first wide-scale Israeli military campaign was launched on the territory of South Lebanon, including Shaqra, in the spring of that year. Zain’s father had been anticipating just such an attack, and so had already left the South for Beirut, leaving his family behind in the village. Many inhabitants in fact, fled when the campaign began, including Zain and his brothers, especially after they heard that Israeli soldiers had been asking for them by name at their village home. They stayed with some relatives in Beirut’s Southern suburbs for a time before Zain’s father drove three of his sons—one of whom was Zain—to Kuwait to find work.

<br>

After Zain’s father returned on his own to Lebanon, he rented a small shopfront in Beer al-Abed next to his sister’s house and turned it into an auto body shop. There he worked alongside two of his sons, performing oil changes and fixing damaged wheels. Meanwhile, the three sons who had migrated to Kuwait for work were living there with their uncle, who had married a Kuwaiti woman. At first, the boys attempted to pursue their schooling, but the schools in Kuwait refused to take them unless they repeated three whole years of education—years they had already completed in the village school of Shaqra. And so, they left their studies behind and looked for the sort of work that might be available to immigrants like them. Zain ended up at his uncle’s workshop fixing television sets and radios. But after a year and a half in Kuwait, the three brothers returned home to Lebanon disillusioned, hitching a ride back with their father on one of his return trips. They all set to work at their father’s auto body shop, where business was booming. This was due to the influx of used cars on the Lebanese market that had been facilitated both by the civil war, as well as the expansion of import networks via sea from the European markets after the second huge Israeli military campaign on Lebanon—an invasion that reached all the way to Beirut this time in the summer of 1982.
