---
title: The Minister of Unknown Documents
---

Zain, the narrator of this tale, probably wouldn’t have been able to tell it with such satirical levity were he not convinced of the inevitability of such clientelist complicity, how widespread it is, in general, and how necessary, such relationships are for any professional success.

<br>

As though the procedures and transactions governing that sort of cronyism were all part of some “unspoken pact” that basically administers all work and trade. It was only a matter of time before Zain and his brothers discovered the true nature of the documents they were bringing to their relative the minister to sign: pre-approved agreements required by the Ministry of Labor for anyone who wished to bring a foreign domestic worker in from abroad and employ them at home. Before this discovery, not a single one of the brothers—according to Zain—had ever even laid eyes on a domestic worker, either in anyone’s home or out in the streets, whether Lebanese or Syrians or from any other East Asian country. Maybe they hadn’t noticed the one at their relative, the minister’s house.

<br>

But from that point onwards, that is, from the mid-1990s on, they began noticing all the unfamiliar brown-skinned girls and women they encountered, sometimes passing through the streets of the neighborhood in front of their body shop. After asking around, they discovered that these women hailed from Sri Lanka, and were working as housemaids in Beirut, and that their arrival in the city must have been preceded by a signature on one of the documents they’d passed to their uncle the minister, whose approval had helped facilitate this woman’s arrival to the country so that she might be put to work cleaning the home of one of their auto body shop clients.

<br>

The brothers, along with one of their cousins who also worked at the auto body shop, began paying close attention to this new phenomenon. They began observing the faces of all the Sri Lankan women they saw in the streets and becoming more aware of their own intermediary role in the process. Finally, they decided to pay an official visit to their relative, the minister of Labor, in order to discuss that role openly.

<br>

And so, Zain, his cousin, and both their fathers all went together to sit down with the minister at his home, and he explained to them all the paperwork and procedures required by the Ministry of Labor to bring Sri Lankan domestic workers into the country. Zain and his family then suggested that they open up an office in order to handle all these transactions—taking up the role of mediators that they’d already been playing, only now in an official, and paid capacity.

<br>

They hoped furthermore that their relative could help them obtain the permit for such an office from the ministry. The minister welcomed the idea, telling the two fathers, of course. Saying it was important for the young people to find work and evolve it in this domain. I’m ready to help the young men of our family do just that, he said.
