The brothers had still not fully digested or come to terms with their new lot in life. That they were now truly free of the auto body shop, that they went to work at an office every day in clean clothes, with hands and faces free of grease stains, that they sat in a pristine office in a chair behind a desk. There were no car tires to repair, and they didn’t need to spend hours in a hole in the ground peering at the underside of a car. No, they had literally ascended to a higher position, wherefrom their second-floor office balcony, they could look down on people as they went about their days below. They took phone calls from atop their rolling office chairs behind their desks, and they regularly went to airports and flew on planes and got to discover the world and its people. They now inhabited another world entirely, meeting different people and having other kinds of conversations in a wholly new language. They were far from their old lives at the auto body shop. And the desire to remain in that new world lent the brothers both the physical and emotional energy necessary to keep their agency open and running. They decided to work twice as hard, to redouble all their efforts in order to secure the 50 million Lebanese lira necessary within the three months their relative the minister had made available to them. At the end of the three months, they had managed to earn most of the amount, enough to be able to borrow the rest from their father and uncle reasonably. They deposited the money at the housing bank and received a certificate to secure their operating permit in return.
