Zain and his brothers now worked with renewed vigor, and this new level of seriousness and professionalism became apparent in the way they ran their office in Mouawad Street. In the beginning, their father would come to visit his sons at the office, parking himself in a corner for hours and watching the comings and goings of their work. He would overhear conversations with this client or that, growing irritated as he listened to their angry grievances with their maids. The housewives would often drag their maids along with them to the agency, complaining of their ignorance or bad behavior or disobedience and demanding to “exchange” them with others who were better behaved. During his hours at the office, Zain’s father sometimes also overheard the complaints of some of the domestic workers, how they spoke agitatedly and fearfully in their broken Arabic about having been subjected to physical and emotional abuse at the hands of their employers, and how they’d been deprived of food. And Zain’s father would grow angrier and angrier, though he suppressed it in the presence of the clients. Once, however, he couldn't help himself, and he exploded in the face of one of the complaining housewives. Yesterday, you were starving, he yelled, and the minute you got some food in your belly and some coins to rub together, you got up on your high horse and got yourself a maid to serve you, and now you won’t even give her food to eat?

<br>

Zain leaped to his feet to cut his father off, begging him, please, please, please, dad, don’t get involved. We’re not in the village here. We’re in an office in Beirut. But the woman huffed out of the agency, all the same, cursing the day she ever set foot in it.
