---
title: 'The Philippines: A Chance to Get Rich'
---

A number of brokerage agencies had already seized the opportunity to penetrate into the Philippines, evolving their businesses and increasing their earnings before Zain’s own chance to do so finally arrived in 2001. In Beirut, he met a man whose nephew worked in the Philippines, running a recruitment office in Manila to bring Filipino women to work as domestic servants in Lebanon. Zain called the nephew on the phone, and they agreed he would come to visit the Philippines. By this point, Zain had already taken some private English lessons and could now speak the language, as well as some Sri Lankans who spoke Arabic, which means he spoke in a way that either elicited outright giggles or the suppression of mocking laughter. During his tour of the recruitment agencies for domestic workers in Manila, Zain met Ms. Mary, a joyous, elegant, and liberal Filipino woman, who invited him to visit her at her office, which happened to be one of the biggest brokerage agencies in the country, recruiting Filipino women for employment as domestic workers in various parts of the world. It was an office so big that it occupied two entire huge buildings. Ms. Mary took Zain on a tour so he could see how they did their work. One of the buildings was a residential one set up to house hundreds of women, who were packed into their tiny rooms like chickens in cages. When the women saw Zain walking through the halls with Ms. Mary, they yelled out: Good morning sir, good morning! Zain was embarrassed by the women yelling out at him and by the sight of them living confined to such subhuman conditions.
