Still from the documentary film A Maid For Each, in which Zain draws a map illustrating the recruitment network involved in bringing foreign domestic workers into the country.Map of the recruitment network for bringing foreign domestic workers into Lebanon, its logistics, and costs.

<br>

The second building was for training the women and preparing them for travel. Ms. Mary took him into a spacious room in the training building, which was her own private office, so that Zain could observe her last meeting with a group of women who had completed all the necessary arrangements and were about to go to the airport to travel abroad. Ms. Mary stood before the women, addressing them in English. Zain couldn’t understand everything she said, but from what he could make out of Ms. Mary’s final pep talk to her girls, she was saying: you are ambassadors of the Philippines, and it is your job to raise the name of your country high in the world.

<br>

Ms. Mary began sending hundreds of application folders to Zain’s agency in Mouawad street. Each one contained all the necessary information—including a photo and a photocopy of her passport— required for a single woman to obtain pre-authorization from the Lebanese Ministry of Labor for travel to and employment in Lebanon. Once everything was approved and sent to Ms. Mary’s office in Manila, it would only be a few days before the woman received her visa. She was then pulled out of the building where she had been packed in like a sardine, given a pep talk to raise the name of Philippines high in Lebanon, and sent off to a new country to begin a new life.
