In those days, Zain would present his clients with a photo album containing photographs of the women available for recruitment and ask them to choose a domestic worker that way. And if he managed to sell his clients on ten Filipina women in a single day, then all ten would be arriving at Beirut airport just a few days later without delay. This was not the case with the Sri Lankan, Ethiopian, and Bangladeshi women. If you had completed transactions for ten women from any one of those countries, then only 3 or 4 might arrive at the airport, either because the rest had become reluctant to travel and work in Lebanon, or because the Lebanese brokers there were so disorganized and chaotic in their work that they botched some final part of the process. Work with Ms. Mary’s office, however, was precise and methodical. That, along with the slight increase in income made from recruiting Filipino women and in the monthly salaries they demanded from employers (which was negligible and still far below the actual value of their work), as well as the popularity of Filipino women among a wide section of the Lebanese population, encouraged Zain to concentrate most of his efforts on trying to bring in as many numbers of women from the Philippines as he could. His clients were so enthusiastic, and he had so many files to process that he had to sometimes pass extras on to other brokerage agencies in Beirut so they could handle the large influx.

<br>

When he got to this part of his story, Zain once again went back to the beginning. He reminisced about shuttling paperwork and files back and forth between the auto body shop and the house and office of his relative, the Minister of Labor:

<p class="flex mt-5 mr-5 sm:mr-20">
“We were illiterate, poor and ignorant,” he said, “and we knew absolutely nothing about servants or domestic work or brokerage agencies or what permits they required. Now, when I look back on what I’ve learned over the last 20 years of my work here, I realize that people like me, we were never actually living in this country we’re living in. We were completely cut off from everything. Everything I’ve encountered and learned about through my work, I was ignorant of before. I fell into this work by chance, and I changed completely. I got to learn and experience how these wealthier people live, these people I was completely separate from before. They didn't know me, and I didn’t know them. I had no idea how they behaved or worked or how they established relationships among one another. As a result, my mind expanded, my world expanded. I came into contact with so many different types of people from all the different classes: the wealthy, the politicians, the ministers, bank managers, CEOs, ambassadors, the middle classes, the poor. When I began working at this job seriously, and in earnest, I would often catch myself suddenly thinking, is this really me, working here and making all this money? Is that even possible? Is that truly me? Before I worked so hard and for such long hours, and I could barely make ends meet. I stayed poor, living on the bare minimum. I would change 50 car tires a day, repairing and reattaching them, but I barely made anything from that work. You’ve changed a lot, Zain, I’d tell myself. Look at you, buying a new car, exchanging it out whenever you want for something even newer. Look at you, traveling here and there. Yes, you’ve changed, Zain, you’ve really changed.”
</p>
