---
title: Travels and the Villa of Your Dreams
---

Between 2000 and 2006, Zain’s work was comfortable and easy, and his business was booming in the office on Mouawad Street. In those days, he divided his time between travels to the Philippines and trips back to his native village of Shaqra in the south, where he was overseeing the construction of his new villa. This period of prosperity coincided not only with the popularity of Filipino domestic workers on the Lebanese market but also with a construction boom in a number of towns and villages in south Lebanon, especially those that had been in the zone along the border occupied by Israel, and from which the Israeli armed forces withdrew on May 25, 2000. The people in the south observed the date as Liberation Day, mounting celebrations to mark the withdrawal of troops and the end of an occupation that had been ongoing since the summer of 1982.

<br>

Before some of Zain’s trips to Manila, Ms. Mary would pave the way for him by organizing ad campaigns that included print ads, local radio spots, and TV billboards, all announcing the arrival of a Lebanese businessman who was looking to recruit Filipino women for jobs in Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and Kuwait. Zain would land at Manila airport at 5 in the morning and immediately be whisked off to the VIP area thanks to Ms. Mary’s connections and influence. On his way from the airport to her office, his car would be accompanied by another, from which issued loudspeaker announcements declaring the arrival of the promised Lebanese businessman, and Zain would see numbers of passersby all stopping to watch his car drive past. Meanwhile, he sat there sweating with embarrassment in the backseat of the car, stuck in Manila’s morning traffic as people stared. When he arrived at Ms. Mary’s office, he’d find they had prepared a whole room just for his use and assigned him his own secretary as well so he could arrange for interviews with women who were seeking work abroad. His meetings would begin that same afternoon, as woman after a woman walked in and sat down before him. Each woman would tell him a little bit about herself, her work experience, her talents, and best qualities, trying to make herself appear like an excellent candidate for the Lebanese businessman so that he might choose her. In the meantime, Zain was trying to hide his own discomfort and embarrassment at the strange position he’d found himself in.
