From his repeated visits, Zain came to see that the Philippines was a country whose institutions and businesses functioned in an organized way and whose people were intelligent, educated, and hard-working. Though the country was modern and orderly, job opportunities were scarce, especially for women. He learned that there were about 12 million Filipinos, most of them women, working outside their own country, scattered between Europe, the US and the countries of the Arab Gulf. He learned that there were some 500 nurses who had left all at once in the course of a single week to go work at hospitals in the US for a salary of about 500 to 600 dollars a month. And he also learned that Ms. Mary, the woman with whom he did business, was a woman of great influence and connections not only with the government in her country, but within the embassy as well, where she had people on the inside acting as brokers and receiving bribes and commissions to facilitate the paperwork for the foreign recruitment of domestic workers, bypassing official channels and the law in the process. The Embassy of the Philippines in Beirut, for example, along with the Filipino Ministry of Labor, had determined a minimum salary of 200 dollars per month for Filipino women coming to work as domestic laborers in Lebanon. But the brokerage agencies in Manila and in Lebanon had colluded together to reduce that number down to 150 dollars, and it was the job of the Lebanese agencies to use all the bribes and crooked methods at their disposal to get the embassy consul in Beirut to turn a blind eye to their non-compliance in wages should he ever realize the discrepancy as a result of a complaint from this woman or that. The people who ran the offices in Lebanon would often threaten the women and warn them not to reveal their actual monthly salary to embassy staff in Beirut if they ever found themselves needing to seek refuge there from problems with their employers.

<br>

Things continued like this, with the business of Filipino domestic workers booming in Lebanon right up until the 2006 war. That was when authorities in the Philippines issued a decision banning their nationals from traveling to work in Lebanon. The arrival of new women via the usual channels slowed to a trickle before stopping altogether. This prompted agencies in Lebanon, the Philippines, and the Arab Gulf region to begin coordinating together in order to be able to smuggle Filipino women into Lebanon for work by way of the Gulf countries.
