Thus began a new, tripartite black-market network, a lengthy and complex process that would begin in the Philippines, when agencies there would carry out the paperwork necessary for a woman to pursue domestic work in one of the Gulf countries. Meanwhile, agencies in the Gulf would be preparing the paperwork to send the woman to Lebanon in cooperation with an agency there. But this tangled process and its complicated network not only disrupted the smooth influx of Filipino women into the Lebanese domestic labor market, slowing it down considerably, but also raised all the costs involved: of the transactions that had to be done, of travel, as well as women’s salaries in Lebanon. So, despite the still-high demand for Filipino domestic workers, their numbers dwindled in the country. The work taking place between employment agencies in Lebanon and recruitment agencies in the Philippines was reduced considerably as well. In order to make up for the loss represented by the lack of Filipinos, Zain instead turned to recruit Malagasy women, who were said to be kind, educated, and respectable. The problem was that they spoke French instead of English. This forced Zain and others like him to have to reevaluate their work, to try and understand how to target new and more specific client groups and classes. The clients who had grown used to Filipino domestic workers and familiar with the English language they spoke were compelled to reassess everything now with this change of nationality and language in their domestic workers. Some of them were forced to revive the old, archaic “Francophone” customs of days they’d thought long gone, replaced entirely by the “Anglophone” ways of the modern world.
