---
title: A Mafia in a Cave
---

Zain compared getting into the business of recruiting foreign domestic workers to entering into a labyrinthine cave system. First, there’s the large, initial cavern of the Lebanese government and its official administration over the brokerage agencies that do this sort of work. But this cavern leads to a series of other, ever-smaller and tighter spaces that have to be negotiated by agencies such as his: the relationships with the recruitment agencies and brokers in the countries abroad and the paperwork and transactions that have to be managed with the embassies of those countries in Lebanon.

<br>

Then, there is the relationship with the women themselves, who all come from different countries, have different habits, different traditions, different religions, different attitudes. And there are the Lebanese customers, with their own complicated desires and strange whims.

<br>

Zain sees the brokerage agencies as playing the role of mediator between the country supplying the “human good” to be exported and the country receiving said import. The agencies take care of marketing the “human good” in their country while also managing the relationships between the authorities of the exporting countries, the administrative institutions of the importing country (the Lebanese Ministry of Labor and the Directorate of General Security), and the customers whose demands set the whole enterprise in motion (the Lebanese, their whims, their attitudes). Often this mediation extends to dealing with the internal security forces, the prosecutor general and the judicial system in Lebanon (in the event that the women are attacked or subjected to abuse or violence in the homes in which they work, or if they should run away). In navigating this tricky labyrinth, the agencies must always play a conciliatory role, trying to create a workable compromise between all these sides for the protection of their own interests, to enable themselves to continue their own work and to continue accumulating financial profit.

<br>

In the gloom of this labyrinth, this system of brokerage, of collusion, and enmeshed private interests operates very much the way a mafia does, but it is so widespread and common that the most nefarious parts of its operations become simply taken for granted. In this world, the agency plays the role of intermediary. So if an issue should arise between a domestic worker and her employer, it is the agency’s job to fix it. If the employer calls the police, for example, to make a complaint about their worker, the police will ask the employer to call the agency. And if this issue should somehow arrive all the way to the prosecutor general, he, too, will also ask that the worker be sent to the agency that brought her here. Based on decisions issued by the judiciary, Zain has more than once had women released into his custody after they were arrested by the police or turned over by their employers to the police station. It has also happened that his agency has received calls from hospital administrators after a domestic worker was taken to the emergency room, asking them to pay for the cost of her treatment.
