After Monica, Wael wanted us to try and live without a maid for a while. “You did it when we first married,” he said. I laughed him out of the room. “I did it when we lived in a tiny flat and had no kids. How about you clean all four bathrooms every day then? How about you iron your shirts and make your own coffee and mop the floors and cook for the kids?” He really has no idea what it takes to keep the house running, no idea. He can’t even boil an egg.

After Monica is when we got Chandra, I think. Yes. She was also Sri Lankan. I didn’t have the same rapport with her as I had with Monica. She was a bit... primitive. Imagine, she ate with her hands when she first came! But then we taught her how to use a fork, and I also taught her some words in English and Arabic. I’d teach her ten new words a week, and I’d give her chocolate when she had memorized the lesson well and used the words on her own. But in the beginning, I won’t lie; it was incredibly frustrating. I had to show her everything myself and explain using sign language. Some women have no patience; they yell and scream immediately. That’s not my style. I’m always fair, always respectful. I remind myself: this woman has left her own family to come serve yours. Of course, I lose my temper sometimes, but really, it’s incredibly rare. I don't think I’d even call the police on one of them if they stole something from me. Then again, I don’t know if they’d ever steal from me because I’ve never mistreated them. I’ve always said: you need something, you tell me! I don’t even keep their passports from them. I mean, I have it just to keep it safe, but they know where it’s hidden, and they can get it any time.
