I was born in Germany in 1981, the daughter of a Lebanese father and a German mother. I had a German passport and white skin by birth. I was given a Lebanese name and surname. As I grew older, I grew some black curly hair. My mother tongue was and will always be German. I went to German kindergarten and schools. On our vacations, we traveled through Germany and Europe: the North Sea, Italy, France. As a teenager, I started to travel with my friends, camping with backpacks, by trains, bikes, and on foot – again all throughout Europe. I would not visit Lebanon until I turned nineteen. Yet, even so, the knowledge of being a “half” was present: my name, sometimes my looks, my family story. I was used to questions: where are you initially from? Do you speak Arabic? Do you visit Lebanon? And statements: Your German is very good. You don’t seem to care about Lebanon. There is a war there. You never want to go there? These questions and statements, the slight awareness of being “half,” played a minor role, like a tiny tickle, within my reality, a tiny feeling of being looked at as simultaneously inferior and exotic. A little bit of pity mixed with a sense of others’ entitlement in asking me questions, ignoring if I knew how to answer them or the insecurity and awkwardness they might produce. But maybe this is just the general feeling of a child and his/her encounters with adults? I don’t know. Have I been white or black? Switching between both? Or merging them as a shade of grey? I guess I must have been something like a white person with the slight awareness of having something black, hidden, unknown – which happened to be the truth – sometimes covered with shame, sometimes with pride, sometimes with sadness – but, in general, not a big deal in my daily childhood and teenage life. When I was nineteen, I decided to live in Lebanon. And while – in the last 17 years of traveling to and from Lebanon, partly living and working there – I am said to become more and more Lebanese, I think that since I decided to live in Lebanon, I have become a more decisive white person. White because of my passport, white because of my multiple privileges and rights (social, economic, cultural, and political), white because of my ability and capability to choose nearly every single and minor aspect of my daily life. And white because with the move to Lebanon, I used my privilege to show the willingness and courage to address the black side of me, to show it, reveal it, and discuss it. To put it out there. Therefore, I am white but no longer ashamed or guilty, neither of being allegedly or hidden black nor of representing the white, the power, and the violence of superiority. A fine art and a fine line. Of navigating between black and white? Of merging them? Of becoming grey? No, rather of playing with the black while at the same time safely and constantly confirming the white.
