Why did I – nevertheless – choose to write about it once more? Partly because the notion of black and white was a constant point of discussion when the movie A Maid for Each was in process, a constant stumbling block that we repeatedly tried to discuss in a meaningful way but that ended up escaping us as we inevitably arrived at a place of “non-outcome,” or “non-solution”. Partly because those discussions reminded me of my own history of blackness and whiteness, my own attempts to overcome or integrate the two notions, mainly by my choice to live in Lebanon, which only ended in the further “whitening” of myself, the consolidation of my whiteness. And partly, because within these attempts, within my wish to integrate the two notions and sometime after the movie was finished, I stumbled across a series of incidents related to my work in Lebanon: a project with migrant domestic workers in Lebanon, that included nearly weekly meetings and daily contacts with these women, the integration of a vast network of people within this project and essentially new acquaintances, new ideas, new impulses and seemingly new friendships. Within this project, I again stumbled upon the black and the white, with all their inherent notions and dynamics. I stumbled harder than before, challenging not my whiteness but confirming it, evoking new and old feelings: shame, guilt, anger, and the constant wish to escape, to “change my skin” and/or to “change their skin.” Therefore, this story is essentially a story about myself, about me being white and whiter than before. It is also a story about Lebanon, about the white and the black in Lebanon, about their unspoken and silenced dynamics within solidarity movements and activism in Lebanon. About the relation between politically aware and progressive Lebanese and migrant domestic workers, those who in Lebanon “don’t give orders, they only receive orders”, those who are on the other side within the international division of labour, “subalterns”, invisible, silenced and inherent to the management and functioning of our society as we know it. In this vein, the article essentially poses the question: is it possible to merge the white and the black and to become grey? It essentially answers this question by saying that there is no grey; there is nothing like a grey piano that is able to make music. A piano has black and white keys. There might be different notions of black and white by using the keys differently, but, currently, they cannot merge. Once they merge in a utopian future, we still have the history of the old piano, not to be forgotten when looking at the development of the instrument.
