Writing this today in 2018, a grey piano still does not exist. Despite a decade-long struggle for rights for people of color and a change of power dynamics in many political, economic, legal, and cultural contexts, the question of if the subaltern can speak is still a valid and unanswered question.

<br>

The presence of migrant domestic workers in many countries, including Lebanon, is only one example of these unjust and discriminatory structurally based power dynamics in which the notion of black and white is inherent and central. Still, there has been change, “time has made some changes in the Negro face.

<br>

Nothing has succeeded in making it exactly like our own, though the general desire seems to be to make it blank if one cannot make it white” in order to “thoroughly wash [the past] from the black face as it has been from ours”. We try to merge the black and the white, to join forces, find a common struggle and – subsequently – to play the piano together. A struggle which in our case means a struggle for migrant domestic workers, to gain their basic “right to refuse” as a start, while we – as privileged white, politically aware and active individuals – try to help them, to grant this right to them and to accept it as their right. But “a piano is just a piano”, and it consists of black and white keys, “there's only so much you can do with it”. Therefore, our joint struggle, our solidarity and support have their limits, limits that are based on injustice, dominance, dependency and representations, limits that are expressed in silence, in the unseen, the unheard and the denied.

<br />

In many ways the subaltern cannot speak until today, mainly because no one listens, but she can start by fighting for her right to refuse, by refusing in action and therefore trying to break the silenced and unheard. But this is not what this article is about. This is not about what they can do. This is about what we can and cannot do, what we can speak and not speak. We cannot speak about them or for them. There are limits to it. What we can do and have to do is first of all to speak about and for ourselves, to attempt “a change of level, addressing oneself to a layer of material”, addressing us as white and not them as black, “measuring the silence” between us, measuring what is not said and what is refused to be said in our relationship with them. And therefore try to make the unseen and denied visible and tangible. Similarly to the struggle for the right to refuse on the side of the migrant domestic worker, the process to measure the silence and “unsilence” can be a painful and violent process, but “the only way to find this out is to try; to try and make it do everything.”
