---
roleOne: Research
roleOneName: Abir Saksouk
roleOneNameTwo: Maher Abi Samra
roleTwo: Written By
roleTwoName: Abir Saksouk
roleTwoNameTwo: Sahar Mandour
---

What happens when a domestic worker finally arrives at her employer’s home: where does she sleep? What’s the space allocated to her, and what’s the meaning of this room’s location in our homes, the homes of those she is meant to serve? During this time of quarantine and lockdown, while domestic workers have been demanding to receive all their pending wages and be returned to their home countries safely and securely, these questions have become even more pressing. Questions about a space ostensibly designed for them but in such a way that seeks to erase their presence, that antagonizes them, that drives them to suicide at rates that have been increasing alarmingly over the course of the last few months.

<br>

Through a historical approach to the development of residential architecture and design over the years, and by studying the shifts in the allotment of space to various functions in the home, it became clear—both through actual practice and the way this was enshrined in successive building codes—how domestic workers and their rooms became classified as part of the category of services in the home rather than actual inhabitants of the household. And so, the design of their spaces necessitated that they be “elegantly” concealed in order to absent them from the life of the household as much as possible.

<br>

The text traces the historical development of this space known as “the maid’s room”, revealing the way that the abuse of domestic workers has become institutionalized at every level. The development of “the maid’s room” in fact lies at the heart of the social, economic and spatial structures that have shaped the lives of domestic workers within the home as well as our homes themselves, and made it all part of the urban fabric. The text also asks us to reconsider this architectural violation, one that cannot be merely reduced to racism and which even transgresses the bounds of the Kafala system itself.
