<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">Abir:</span>
  <br />
  Mama, tell me exactly what happened with Aiecha.
</p>
<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">Mama (after a few beats of silence):</span>
  <br />Why are you thinking of this now?
</p>
<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  I thought of her two days ago. Why did you even have a domestic worker from
  Africa?
  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  Before Aiecha, there was a Nigerian woman who was sent here to us by your
  brother. She was the first, then she left. She wanted to go back to her
  country.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  What year was this?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  Sometime in the ‘80s, I think.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  Why didn’t you get anyone from here?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  It didn’t work out. In 1977, when we came back to settle in Lebanon for good,
  I got two Egyptians. There were employment offices, and lots of Egyptians were
  coming here for work. The Egyptian girls finished out their contract and left.
  We couldn’t find any Lebanese women, and at the time, there were no Sri
  Lankans coming to the country. So we got the Nigerian woman. After that, your
  father, God rest his soul, told our relative to send us one from Sierra Leone.
  And our relative, I don’t know what he was thinking, sent a girl who couldn’t
  have been older than 12 or 13. Younger even.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  What year was this?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  Also, sometime in the 80s. Your aunt passed away in 1988, and Aiecha was still
  around then. I think she arrived in 1987. Every time I remember her… I cried
  for her. I cried all the tears I had. I cried so much for Aiecha.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  How long was she with us before she died?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  About two years.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  And why was my brother there at our house that night that she died? Because I
  remember waking up and seeing him carrying her to take her to the hospital.

  <br />
  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  Your bother was here on a visit from Nigeria. And that day, my nephew Hasan
  was arriving from Abidjan on the Ivory Coast, and his plane was landing very
  early in the morning, 5 or 6 am. I asked your brother: ‘will you come to the
  airport with me tomorrow to pick up Hasan?’ And he said yes. The day before,
  Um Selim had been at our house, and we’d barbecued some meat. Sometime in the
  afternoon, Um Selim was sitting on that couch there that faces the kitchen,
  and I was sitting next to her, and we saw Aiecha holding the coal stove, and
  the coals were still glowing fire. I asked her: ‘where are you taking that?’
  And she said: ‘I want to heat my room.’ I said: ‘Get it out of here, now! You
  want to set yourself on fire?’ We were still only using kerosene or coal for
  heat. She took it outside.
  <br />
  <br />

  The next day, at 4 or 5 in the afternoon. I got dressed, and we took you with
  us. I told Aiecha, ‘come with us.’ And she came with us to your aunt’s house.
  We got back home around 6. She stoked the fire and we grilled some meat and
  had our dinner. And then we sat around, and it was winter. Your father went to
  bed, and your brother said, ‘I’m going to bed as well.’ Then it was just me
  and her sitting there, and there was no electricity, and there were no
  generators at the time. Around 10 pm, I also went to bed, and I thought she’d
  done the same.

  <br />
  <br />
  It seems that she took the coal heater to her room again. And the window that
  opened onto the kitchen balcony was a little broken, so she had it closed and
  stopped up with some rags so the wind couldn’t get into her room. And that
  door, the kitchen door, was lined with rubber just like a car door. When you
  shut it, it formed a seal.
  <br />
  <br />
  She went to her bedroom, but it seems there was no oxygen in the room. And it
  was a small room.
  <br />
  <br />
  In the morning, My brother and I woke up and went to the airport to pick up
  Hasan. I think it was about 6:30 in the morning. At the airport, they
  announced that the plane was delayed until 8. My brother said, let’s go back
  home so we don’t have to keep waiting out here in the cold. We went home, and
  I made some coffee. It was around seven by then. I thought, let me wake her up
  before we head back to the airport. I knocked on her door, she didn’t answer.
  I knocked, I knocked… then I opened the door. I shook her, she was stiff as a
  board. I ran and woke up your father. Your brother picked her up and took her
  to the emergency. The doctor said she’d been dead for ten hours. Which means
  right from the time she fell asleep.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  How did you break the news to her parents?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  There was a woman named Amina, she knew Aiecha’s family and she’s the one
  who’d recommended her to our relative. Curse her. A girl so young, just a
  child… we were surprised when Aiecha showed up. She was so young. Amina was
  the one who told Aiecha’s parents that she’d died. We informed the police, and
  they came to see the room. It’s quite a responsibility, an underage girl… And
  we explained to her family what had happened. We explained that we’d never
  meant to hurt her.
</p>

<p class="mt-5">
  <span class="font-bold">A: </span>
  Where did you bury her?

  <br />
  <span class="font-bold">M: </span>
  In the village cemetery. Where we buried your father a year or two later.
</p>
