At the beginning of the twentieth century, my grandfather immigrated from Hanawey in South Lebanon to Kenema, a town in Sierra Leone. He was a farmer, following in the footsteps of hundreds of other peasants and Lebanese laborers, who like him, had set off to the African continent during the last decade of the 19th century.

<br>

The Lebanese headed for the French and British colonies on the African continent, with many settling, especially in the “four provinces” that were under French control, where modern Senegal is today. My grandfather, however, followed the Lebanese who’d headed for British territory, who ended up mostly in Sierra Leone in West Africa, where the ships coming into the British colonies would dock. That’s where my father was born, in a remote village, a ten-hour drive away from Freetown. My father grew up there, never going to school. He remained illiterate. At age ten, he began working as a cowherd, and then he moved on to transporting cows from Guinea and selling them in Sierra Leone. With time, and over the course of his strange and plentiful stories, my father transformed from a cowherd into a grocery worker and then became a local merchant, before going on to own and operate the first cinema in Sierra Leone, and finally ending up, of course, a diamond merchant.

<br>

The role of the quasi-colonist my father played in Sierra Leone continued on after he returned to Lebanon in 1974. He came back because of an illness, but his network of associates and acquaintances remained intact. And one of them was the man who sent young domestic workers to the family in Lebanon without any official arrangements or labor contracts.
