Any residential project in Lebanon today includes a floor plan displayed at street level, showcasing the apartment’s layout to passersby. There is almost always a small room labeled “maid’s room.” These private condominiums and luxury “villas” are sites of encounter between prevailing social desires and the ruling capitalist economy. The “maid’s room” is produced by the convergence of the homeowner’s desires to appoint a meaning and purpose for every room with the developer’s desires to exploit every last possible square meter of land. Add the Kafala system, and the room is transformed into something indicative of the worst forms of exploitation, racism, and enslavement. Consequently, even in the best-case scenario, the spaces set aside for the house’s maid do not fulfill even the most essential criteria of “adequate housing” circumscribed by international law. Most of the time are oppressive and even dangerous.

<br>

Under a practically unanimous architectural logic, the maid’s room appears, without any hesitation, on the floor plans displayed on the streets. This clarifies that its categorization and various architectural elements are beyond normalized. It is now taken for granted that there is a “despicable” little corner where the home’s cheap domestic labor might be tucked away in the homes of both the middle and upper classes. The Lebanese case remains unique within the context of the global exploitation of cheap labor, given that the neo-liberal legal framework gives priority to the real estate developers’ potential profits at the expense of any architectural, human, or human rights values.

<br>

The local legal framework that defines the standards for the maid’s room in Lebanon is the Lebanese Building Law. Indeed, this law contains a number of articles related to housing for domestic workers, which change over time depending on the policies of the moment. And yet, regardless of any modifications in the law, the designation of “maid’s room” has never changed. With time, the law became more specific in terms of gender, referring to the “maid” set to occupy the “room” in question in the feminine, officially classifying domestic work as women’s labor. In all the articles of the law, these “maid’s rooms” are always mentioned in conjunction with other types of utility rooms in the house, such as storage rooms, laundry rooms, and off-spaces designed for only short-term human occupancy.

<br>

It has become clear—again, through actual application—that the domestic worker and her lodgings are categorized under “services” rather than occupancy in the floor plan’s design, which means they need to be “elegantly” hidden away, to absent them and make them as invisible from the house’s daily life as possible.

<br>

If the meaning and object of these concepts and/or practices relating to domestic labor have become defined over time, they have also undergone actual transformations, with various attempts and contradictions that make historical research fundamentally necessary to being able to tell the story of “the maid’s room.” I followed the historical evolution of this space, an evolution that lies at the heart of the social, economic, and local structures that have “architected” both the life of the domestic worker in the home and our own lives, orienting them toward and within the city.
