How, then, to dismantle this racial hierarchy? Reform is no solution here. As it has grown over the last four decades, the kafala system has entrenched itself into every aspect of Lebanese society, from the family unit to the architecture of the home, from television representations to popular stereotypes about how Sri Lankan women smell or how Ethiopian women speak Arabic. Reaching further and further into the Lebanese nation, evident in not only private domestic life but also public space and public conversation, the kafala system has become central to what it means to be Lebanese, and especially, what it means to be a Lebanese woman. Part of this meaning, we have seen, is to be white. Not white as a shade of skin (though we are never fully removed from "complexion") but white as a position of social power.

To be white means to be able to treat your domestic worker in whatever fashion you choose and yet, as Nizar Saghieh makes so perfectly clear, have total impunity. To be white is to carry the power of the state in your actions as a citizen. To be white is to be able to change the name of your domestic worker because it is hard to pronounce, and then proceed to forget the various names of all the different women whose labor has kept you and your family alive. To be white is to think of a domestic worker as "yours." To be white is to build a second kitchen so that you need not face this woman as she works, because it is too uncomfortable. To be white is to say, "My Srilankiyye is from the Philippines", or to complain that the Africans are too sexually promiscuous, or to promise that you will pay the black woman her wages when you actually have no intention of doing so, because you do not think she is a person to whom something is owed. To end this structure of white supremacy, then, we must end kafala. We must build a Lebanon in which everyone cleans their own homes, until we find a way to live with each other that does not depend on exploitation.
